John Woods

Choosing scenario 2, I'm definitely presented with an awkward ethical dilemma. While I love my job, and I would hate to put that position into shakier status,
I also have a responsibility to both my coworkers and users to maintain the confidentiality of information. The primary ethical question here is as follows: "Should
I keep quiet to ensure my job security, or should I speak up and potentially anger the CEO in order to fight for the privacy of our users?" Additionally, a further
question arises: "If I am going to fight for privacy, am I ok with the proper use of anonymised data, or will I be completely against all data storage whenever it's 
possible to remove?" 

There are three main groups of "stakeholders" in this situation. First, the most obvious stakeholders are the customers whose data I am trying to protect. These
people have a right to privacy, as well as an expectation of this privacy that is engendered by the marketing around Beerz, the same marketing the CTO gave me
when I was considering working for them. Secondly, the next group of stakeholders is my coworkers. While some are apparently clueless and "profoundly annoying," 
many (such as the CTO) are likely conscerned about the security and privacy implicatons of the CEO's idea. They have both the right and the requirement to be 
concerned with the privacy of their users, work for the better good, and to be honest with their work. As such, it would be doing them a disservice to let this 
idea go through without a thorough review and reworking. Finally, the last stakeholder group is that of those financially benefitting from the CEO's idea. This 
includes the CEO themselves, any stakeholders the company may have, and more broadly, the employees (assuming, perhaps optimistically, that company profits will
in turn lead to higher wages). While these people, as the ACM code states, should expect to be compensated for their work, they also must strive towards honesty, privacy,
and fairness in their position. The CEO in particular has an obligation to lead with public good as the central concern, and is somewhat violating this requirement 
by suggesting such a manipulative policy. 

I wish I knew a little more about this scenario, such as how effective our anonymization of user data would be, but the fact alone that the url logs were storing user
data all along doesn't give me much confidence in our systems' safety and privacy. I'd also like to know how much direct control the CEO has over my employment status, 
and whether this company has a history of firing dissenting voices. 

I could potentially just say nothing about this issue, and let the data harvesting go unchecked, but this could seriously jeapordize our customers' privacy, especially
if the data is not (or cannot) be properly anonymized. I'd likely retain my position and perhaps even be promoted, but in turn I'd be risking my own professional
integrity as well as that of my coworkers. In turn, I could bring this issue up to the CEO, and while this might have the effect I'm looking for, it's entirely possible
that I'd just be fired on the spot, and doing so might not even change anything about the policy. In that case, I'd be out of a job and also have done nothing to secure
Beerz' customers' privacy. However, if the CEO was receptive, I could potentially not only change things for the better for the users, but also help my coworkers become
more comfortable with raising concerns like mine in the future, making their quality of work and ethical considerations much more positive in the future. 

The ACM code offers plenty of guidance here, and makes the ethically correct descision rather clear, in my opinion. Between my obligation to support the public good, 
be honest with not only my users but also my superiors, respect privacy, avoid harm, and honor confidentiality, it's clear that the general ethical principles are in
favor of raising the issue with the CEO. Additionally, the professional standards also agree, as I have a responsibility to strive for high quality (something that the
logs are currently very much lacking), provide appropriate professional review, analyze possible risks, design robust systems, and to only access computing systems
(such as the logs) when the public good compells it. As such, while it's a tough personal decision, from an ethical standpoint it's clear that I must raise the issue
with the CEO and discuss the possible harms, advocating whenever possible for scrubbing user data, including data that's supposedly "anonymized."
